docs/reST/ref/scrap.rst, before:

.. include:: common.txt

:mod:`pygame.scrap`
===================

.. module:: pygame.scrap
   :synopsis: pygame module for clipboard support.

| :sl:`pygame module for clipboard support.`

**EXPERIMENTAL!**: This API may change or disappear in later pygame releases. If
you use this, your code may break with the next pygame release.

The scrap module is for transferring data to/from the clipboard. This allows
for cutting and pasting data between pygame and other applications. Some basic
data (MIME) types are defined and registered:

::

   pygame         string
  constant        value        description
  --------------------------------------------------
  SCRAP_TEXT   "text/plain"    plain text
  SCRAP_BMP    "image/bmp"     BMP encoded image data
  SCRAP_PBM    "image/pbm"     PBM encoded image data
  SCRAP_PPM    "image/ppm"     PPM encoded image data

``pygame.SCRAP_PPM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_PBM`` and ``pygame.SCRAP_BMP`` are
suitable for surface buffers to be shared with other applications.
``pygame.SCRAP_TEXT`` is an alias for the plain text clipboard type.

Depending on the platform, additional types are automatically registered when
data is placed into the clipboard to guarantee a consistent sharing behaviour
with other applications. The following listed types can be used as strings to
be passed to the respective :mod:`pygame.scrap` module functions.

For **Windows** platforms, these additional types are supported automatically
and resolve to their internal definitions:

::

  "text/plain;charset=utf-8"   UTF-8 encoded text
  "audio/wav"                  WAV encoded audio
  "image/tiff"                 TIFF encoded image data

For **X11** platforms, these additional types are supported automatically and
resolve to their internal definitions:

::

  "text/plain;charset=utf-8"   UTF-8 encoded text
  "UTF8_STRING"                UTF-8 encoded text
  "COMPOUND_TEXT"              COMPOUND text

User defined types can be used, but the data might not be accessible by other
applications unless they know what data type to look for.
Example: Data placed into the clipboard by
``pygame.scrap.put("my_data_type", byte_data)`` can only be accessed by
applications which query the clipboard for the ``"my_data_type"`` data type.

.. versionadded:: 1.8

.. note::
   The scrap module is currently only supported for Windows, X11 and Mac OS X.
   On Mac OS X only text works at the moment - other types may be supported in
   future releases.

.. function:: init

   | :sl:`Initializes the scrap module.`
   | :sg:`init() -> None`

   Initialize the scrap module.

   :raises pygame.error: if unable to initialize scrap module

   |

   .. note:: The scrap module requires :func:`pygame.display.set_mode()` be
      called before being initialized.

   .. ## pygame.scrap.init ##

.. function:: get_init

   | :sl:`Returns True if the scrap module is currently initialized.`
   | :sg:`get_init() -> bool`

   Gets the scrap module's initialization state.

   :returns: ``True`` if the :mod:`pygame.scrap` module is currently
      initialized, ``False`` otherwise
   :rtype: bool

   .. versionadded:: 1.9.5

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get_init ##

.. function:: get

   | :sl:`Gets the data for the specified type from the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`get(type) -> bytes or str or None`

   Retrieves the data for the specified type from the clipboard. In python 3
   the data is returned as a byte string and might need further processing
   (such as decoding to Unicode).

   :param string type: data type to retrieve from the clipboard

   :returns: data (byte string in python 3 or str in python 2) for the given
      type identifier or ``None`` if no data for the given type is available
   :rtype: bytes or str or None

   ::

     text = pygame.scrap.get(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT)
     if text:
         print("There is text in the clipboard.")
     else:
         print("There does not seem to be text in the clipboard.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get ##

.. function:: get_types

   | :sl:`Gets a list of the available clipboard types.`
   | :sg:`get_types() -> list`

   Gets a list of data type string identifiers for the data currently
   available on the clipboard. Each identifier can be used in the
   :func:`pygame.scrap.get()` method to get the clipboard content of the
   specific type.

   :returns: list of strings of the available clipboard data types, if there
      is no data in the clipboard an empty list is returned
   :rtype: list

   ::

     for t in pygame.scrap.get_types():
         if "text" in t:
             # There is some content with the word "text" in its type string.
             print(pygame.scrap.get(t))

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get_types ##

.. function:: put

   | :sl:`Places data into the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`put(type, data) -> None`

   Places data for a given clipboard type into the clipboard. The data must
   be a string buffer. The type is a string identifying the type of data to be
   placed into the clipboard. This can be one of the predefined
   ``pygame.SCRAP_PBM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_PPM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_BMP`` or
   ``pygame.SCRAP_TEXT`` values or a user defined string identifier.

   :param string type: type identifier of the data to be placed into the
      clipboard
   :param data: data to be place into the clipboard (in python 3 data is a
      byte string and in python 2 data is a str)
   :type data: bytes or str

   :raises pygame.error: if unable to put the data into the clipboard

   ::

     with open("example.bmp", "rb") as fp:
         pygame.scrap.put(pygame.SCRAP_BMP, fp.read())
     # The image data is now on the clipboard for other applications to access
     # it.
     pygame.scrap.put(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT, b"A text to copy")
     pygame.scrap.put("Plain text", b"Data for user defined type 'Plain text'")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.put ##

.. function:: contains

   | :sl:`Checks whether data for a given type is available in the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`contains(type) -> bool`

   Checks whether data for the given type is currently available in the
   clipboard.

   :param string type: data type to check availability of

   :returns: ``True`` if data for the passed type is available in the
      clipboard, ``False`` otherwise
   :rtype: bool

   ::

     if pygame.scrap.contains(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT):
         print("There is text in the clipboard.")
     if pygame.scrap.contains("own_data_type"):
         print("There is stuff in the clipboard.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.contains ##

.. function:: lost

   | :sl:`Indicates if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame application.`
   | :sg:`lost() -> bool`

   Indicates if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame
   application.

   :returns: ``True``, if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame
      application, ``False`` if the pygame application still owns the clipboard
   :rtype: bool

   ::

     if pygame.scrap.lost():
         print("The clipboard is in use by another application.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.lost ##

.. function:: set_mode

   | :sl:`Sets the clipboard access mode.`
   | :sg:`set_mode(mode) -> None`

   Sets the access mode for the clipboard. This is only of interest for X11
   environments where clipboard modes ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` (for mouse
   selections) and ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD`` (for the clipboard) are
   available. Setting the mode to ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` in other
   environments will not change the mode from ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD``.

   :param mode: access mode, supported values are ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD``
      and ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` (``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` only has an
      effect when used on X11 platforms)

   :raises ValueError: if the ``mode`` parameter is not
      ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD`` or ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION``

   .. ## pygame.scrap.set_mode ##

.. ## pygame.scrap ##

Commit message:

Add link to scrap example code

docs/reST/ref/scrap.rst, after:

.. include:: common.txt

:mod:`pygame.scrap`
===================

.. module:: pygame.scrap
   :synopsis: pygame module for clipboard support.

| :sl:`pygame module for clipboard support.`

**EXPERIMENTAL!**: This API may change or disappear in later pygame releases. If
you use this, your code may break with the next pygame release.

The scrap module is for transferring data to/from the clipboard. This allows
for cutting and pasting data between pygame and other applications. Some basic
data (MIME) types are defined and registered:

::

   pygame         string
  constant        value        description
  --------------------------------------------------
  SCRAP_TEXT   "text/plain"    plain text
  SCRAP_BMP    "image/bmp"     BMP encoded image data
  SCRAP_PBM    "image/pbm"     PBM encoded image data
  SCRAP_PPM    "image/ppm"     PPM encoded image data

``pygame.SCRAP_PPM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_PBM`` and ``pygame.SCRAP_BMP`` are
suitable for surface buffers to be shared with other applications.
``pygame.SCRAP_TEXT`` is an alias for the plain text clipboard type.

Depending on the platform, additional types are automatically registered when
data is placed into the clipboard to guarantee a consistent sharing behaviour
with other applications. The following listed types can be used as strings to
be passed to the respective :mod:`pygame.scrap` module functions.

For **Windows** platforms, these additional types are supported automatically
and resolve to their internal definitions:

::

  "text/plain;charset=utf-8"   UTF-8 encoded text
  "audio/wav"                  WAV encoded audio
  "image/tiff"                 TIFF encoded image data

For **X11** platforms, these additional types are supported automatically and
resolve to their internal definitions:

::

  "text/plain;charset=utf-8"   UTF-8 encoded text
  "UTF8_STRING"                UTF-8 encoded text
  "COMPOUND_TEXT"              COMPOUND text

User defined types can be used, but the data might not be accessible by other
applications unless they know what data type to look for.
Example: Data placed into the clipboard by
``pygame.scrap.put("my_data_type", byte_data)`` can only be accessed by
applications which query the clipboard for the ``"my_data_type"`` data type.

For an example of how the scrap module works refer to the examples page
(:func:`pygame.examples.scrap_clipboard.main`) or the code directly in GitHub
(`pygame/examples/scrap_clipboard.py <https://github.com/pygame/pygame/blob/master/examples/scrap_clipboard.py>`_).

.. versionadded:: 1.8

.. note::
   The scrap module is currently only supported for Windows, X11 and Mac OS X.
   On Mac OS X only text works at the moment - other types may be supported in
   future releases.

.. function:: init

   | :sl:`Initializes the scrap module.`
   | :sg:`init() -> None`

   Initialize the scrap module.

   :raises pygame.error: if unable to initialize scrap module

   |

   .. note:: The scrap module requires :func:`pygame.display.set_mode()` be
      called before being initialized.

   .. ## pygame.scrap.init ##

.. function:: get_init

   | :sl:`Returns True if the scrap module is currently initialized.`
   | :sg:`get_init() -> bool`

   Gets the scrap module's initialization state.

   :returns: ``True`` if the :mod:`pygame.scrap` module is currently
      initialized, ``False`` otherwise
   :rtype: bool

   .. versionadded:: 1.9.5

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get_init ##

.. function:: get

   | :sl:`Gets the data for the specified type from the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`get(type) -> bytes or str or None`

   Retrieves the data for the specified type from the clipboard. In python 3
   the data is returned as a byte string and might need further processing
   (such as decoding to Unicode).

   :param string type: data type to retrieve from the clipboard

   :returns: data (byte string in python 3 or str in python 2) for the given
      type identifier or ``None`` if no data for the given type is available
   :rtype: bytes or str or None

   ::

     text = pygame.scrap.get(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT)
     if text:
         print("There is text in the clipboard.")
     else:
         print("There does not seem to be text in the clipboard.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get ##

.. function:: get_types

   | :sl:`Gets a list of the available clipboard types.`
   | :sg:`get_types() -> list`

   Gets a list of data type string identifiers for the data currently
   available on the clipboard. Each identifier can be used in the
   :func:`pygame.scrap.get()` method to get the clipboard content of the
   specific type.

   :returns: list of strings of the available clipboard data types, if there
      is no data in the clipboard an empty list is returned
   :rtype: list

   ::

     for t in pygame.scrap.get_types():
         if "text" in t:
             # There is some content with the word "text" in its type string.
             print(pygame.scrap.get(t))

   .. ## pygame.scrap.get_types ##

.. function:: put

   | :sl:`Places data into the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`put(type, data) -> None`

   Places data for a given clipboard type into the clipboard. The data must
   be a string buffer. The type is a string identifying the type of data to be
   placed into the clipboard. This can be one of the predefined
   ``pygame.SCRAP_PBM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_PPM``, ``pygame.SCRAP_BMP`` or
   ``pygame.SCRAP_TEXT`` values or a user defined string identifier.

   :param string type: type identifier of the data to be placed into the
      clipboard
   :param data: data to be place into the clipboard (in python 3 data is a
      byte string and in python 2 data is a str)
   :type data: bytes or str

   :raises pygame.error: if unable to put the data into the clipboard

   ::

     with open("example.bmp", "rb") as fp:
         pygame.scrap.put(pygame.SCRAP_BMP, fp.read())
     # The image data is now on the clipboard for other applications to access
     # it.
     pygame.scrap.put(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT, b"A text to copy")
     pygame.scrap.put("Plain text", b"Data for user defined type 'Plain text'")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.put ##

.. function:: contains

   | :sl:`Checks whether data for a given type is available in the clipboard.`
   | :sg:`contains(type) -> bool`

   Checks whether data for the given type is currently available in the
   clipboard.

   :param string type: data type to check availability of

   :returns: ``True`` if data for the passed type is available in the
      clipboard, ``False`` otherwise
   :rtype: bool

   ::

     if pygame.scrap.contains(pygame.SCRAP_TEXT):
         print("There is text in the clipboard.")
     if pygame.scrap.contains("own_data_type"):
         print("There is stuff in the clipboard.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.contains ##

.. function:: lost

   | :sl:`Indicates if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame application.`
   | :sg:`lost() -> bool`

   Indicates if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame
   application.

   :returns: ``True``, if the clipboard ownership has been lost by the pygame
      application, ``False`` if the pygame application still owns the clipboard
   :rtype: bool

   ::

     if pygame.scrap.lost():
         print("The clipboard is in use by another application.")

   .. ## pygame.scrap.lost ##

.. function:: set_mode

   | :sl:`Sets the clipboard access mode.`
   | :sg:`set_mode(mode) -> None`

   Sets the access mode for the clipboard. This is only of interest for X11
   environments where clipboard modes ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` (for mouse
   selections) and ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD`` (for the clipboard) are
   available. Setting the mode to ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` in other
   environments will not change the mode from ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD``.

   :param mode: access mode, supported values are ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD``
      and ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` (``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION`` only has an
      effect when used on X11 platforms)

   :raises ValueError: if the ``mode`` parameter is not
      ``pygame.SCRAP_CLIPBOARD`` or ``pygame.SCRAP_SELECTION``

   .. ## pygame.scrap.set_mode ##

.. ## pygame.scrap ##
