docs/reST/ref/transform.rst, before:

.. include:: common.txt

:mod:`pygame.transform`
=======================

.. module:: pygame.transform
   :synopsis: pygame module to transform surfaces

| :sl:`pygame module to transform surfaces`

A Surface transform is an operation that moves or resizes the pixels. All these
functions take a Surface to operate on and return a new Surface with the
results.

Some of the transforms are considered destructive. These means every time they
are performed they lose pixel data. Common examples of this are resizing and
rotating. For this reason, it is better to re-transform the original surface
than to keep transforming an image multiple times. (For example, suppose you
are animating a bouncing spring which expands and contracts. If you applied the
size changes incrementally to the previous images, you would lose detail.
Instead, always begin with the original image and scale to the desired size.)

.. function:: flip

   | :sl:`flip vertically and horizontally`
   | :sg:`flip(Surface, xbool, ybool) -> Surface`

   This can flip a Surface either vertically, horizontally, or both. Flipping a
   Surface is non-destructive and returns a new Surface with the same
   dimensions.

   .. ## pygame.transform.flip ##

.. function:: scale

   | :sl:`resize to new resolution`
   | :sg:`scale(Surface, (width, height), DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Resizes the Surface to a new resolution. This is a fast scale operation that
   does not sample the results.

   An optional destination surface can be used, rather than have it create a
   new one. This is quicker if you want to repeatedly scale something. However
   the destination must be the same size as the (width, height) passed in. Also
   the destination surface must be the same format.

   .. ## pygame.transform.scale ##

.. function:: rotate

   | :sl:`rotate an image`
   | :sg:`rotate(Surface, angle) -> Surface`

   Unfiltered counterclockwise rotation. The angle argument represents degrees
   and can be any floating point value. Negative angle amounts will rotate
   clockwise.

   Unless rotating by 90 degree increments, the image will be padded larger to
   hold the new size. If the image has pixel alphas, the padded area will be
   transparent. Otherwise pygame will pick a color that matches the Surface
   colorkey or the topleft pixel value.

   .. ## pygame.transform.rotate ##

.. function:: rotozoom

   | :sl:`filtered scale and rotation`
   | :sg:`rotozoom(Surface, angle, scale) -> Surface`

   This is a combined scale and rotation transform. The resulting Surface will
   be a filtered 32-bit Surface. The scale argument is a floating point value
   that will be multiplied by the current resolution. The angle argument is a
   floating point value that represents the counterclockwise degrees to rotate.
   A negative rotation angle will rotate clockwise.

   .. ## pygame.transform.rotozoom ##

.. function:: scale2x

   | :sl:`specialized image doubler`
   | :sg:`scale2x(Surface, DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   This will return a new image that is double the size of the original. It
   uses the AdvanceMAME Scale2X algorithm which does a 'jaggie-less' scale of
   bitmap graphics.

   This really only has an effect on simple images with solid colors. On
   photographic and antialiased images it will look like a regular unfiltered
   scale.

   An optional destination surface can be used, rather than have it create a
   new one. This is quicker if you want to repeatedly scale something. However
   the destination must be twice the size of the source surface passed in. Also
   the destination surface must be the same format.

   .. ## pygame.transform.scale2x ##

.. function:: smoothscale

   | :sl:`scale a surface to an arbitrary size smoothly`
   | :sg:`smoothscale(Surface, (width, height), DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Uses one of two different algorithms for scaling each dimension of the input
   surface as required. For shrinkage, the output pixels are area averages of
   the colors they cover. For expansion, a bilinear filter is used. For the
   x86-64 and i686 architectures, optimized ``MMX`` routines are included and
   will run much faster than other machine types. The size is a 2 number
   sequence for (width, height). This function only works for 24-bit or 32-bit
   surfaces. An exception will be thrown if the input surface bit depth is less
   than 24.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.smoothscale ##

.. function:: get_smoothscale_backend

   | :sl:`return smoothscale filter version in use: 'GENERIC', 'MMX', or 'SSE'`
   | :sg:`get_smoothscale_backend() -> String`

   Shows whether or not smoothscale is using ``MMX`` or ``SSE`` acceleration.
   If no acceleration is available then "GENERIC" is returned. For a x86
   processor the level of acceleration to use is determined at runtime.

   This function is provided for pygame testing and debugging.

   .. ## pygame.transform.get_smoothscale_backend ##

.. function:: set_smoothscale_backend

   | :sl:`set smoothscale filter version to one of: 'GENERIC', 'MMX', or 'SSE'`
   | :sg:`set_smoothscale_backend(type) -> None`

   Sets smoothscale acceleration. Takes a string argument. A value of 'GENERIC'
   turns off acceleration. 'MMX' uses ``MMX`` instructions only. 'SSE' allows
   ``SSE`` extensions as well. A value error is raised if type is not
   recognized or not supported by the current processor.

   This function is provided for pygame testing and debugging. If smoothscale
   causes an invalid instruction error then it is a pygame/SDL bug that should
   be reported. Use this function as a temporary fix only.

   .. ## pygame.transform.set_smoothscale_backend ##

.. function:: chop

   | :sl:`gets a copy of an image with an interior area removed`
   | :sg:`chop(Surface, rect) -> Surface`

   Extracts a portion of an image. All vertical and horizontal pixels
   surrounding the given rectangle area are removed. The corner areas (diagonal
   to the rect) are then brought together. (The original image is not altered
   by this operation.)

   ``NOTE``: If you want a "crop" that returns the part of an image within a
   rect, you can blit with a rect to a new surface or copy a subsurface.

   .. ## pygame.transform.chop ##

.. function:: laplacian

   | :sl:`find edges in a surface`
   | :sg:`laplacian(Surface, DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Finds the edges in a surface using the laplacian algorithm.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.laplacian ##

.. function:: average_surfaces

   | :sl:`find the average surface from many surfaces.`
   | :sg:`average_surfaces(Surfaces, DestSurface = None, palette_colors = 1) -> Surface`

   Takes a sequence of surfaces and returns a surface with average colors from
   each of the surfaces.

   palette_colors - if true we average the colors in palette, otherwise we
   average the pixel values. This is useful if the surface is actually
   greyscale colors, and not palette colors.

   Note, this function currently does not handle palette using surfaces
   correctly.

   New in pygame 1.8 palette_colors argument new in pygame 1.9

   .. ## pygame.transform.average_surfaces ##

.. function:: average_color

   | :sl:`finds the average color of a surface`
   | :sg:`average_color(Surface, Rect = None) -> Color`

   Finds the average color of a Surface or a region of a surface specified by a
   Rect, and returns it as a Color.

   .. ## pygame.transform.average_color ##

.. function:: threshold

   | :sl:`finds which, and how many pixels in a surface are within a threshold of a color.`
   | :sg:`threshold(DestSurface, Surface, color, threshold = (0,0,0,0), diff_color = (0,0,0,0), change_return = 1, Surface = None, inverse = False) -> num_threshold_pixels`

   Finds which, and how many pixels in a surface are within a threshold of a
   color.

   It can set the destination surface where all of the pixels not within the
   threshold are changed to diff_color. If inverse is optionally set to True,
   the pixels that are within the threshold are instead changed to diff_color.

   If the optional second surface is given, it is used to threshold against
   rather than the specified color. That is, it will find each pixel in the
   first Surface that is within the threshold of the pixel at the same
   coordinates of the second Surface.

   If change_return is set to 0, it can be used to just count the number of
   pixels within the threshold if you set

   If change_return is set to 1, the pixels set in DestSurface will be those
   from the color.

   If change_return is set to 2, the pixels set in DestSurface will be those
   from the first Surface.

   You can use a threshold of (r,g,b,a) where the r,g,b can have different
   thresholds. So you could use an r threshold of 40 and a blue threshold of 2
   if you like.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.threshold ##

.. ## pygame.transform ##

Commit message:

Start new documentation for pygame.transform.threshold.

docs/reST/ref/transform.rst, after:

.. include:: common.txt

:mod:`pygame.transform`
=======================

.. module:: pygame.transform
   :synopsis: pygame module to transform surfaces

| :sl:`pygame module to transform surfaces`

A Surface transform is an operation that moves or resizes the pixels. All these
functions take a Surface to operate on and return a new Surface with the
results.

Some of the transforms are considered destructive. These means every time they
are performed they lose pixel data. Common examples of this are resizing and
rotating. For this reason, it is better to re-transform the original surface
than to keep transforming an image multiple times. (For example, suppose you
are animating a bouncing spring which expands and contracts. If you applied the
size changes incrementally to the previous images, you would lose detail.
Instead, always begin with the original image and scale to the desired size.)

.. function:: flip

   | :sl:`flip vertically and horizontally`
   | :sg:`flip(Surface, xbool, ybool) -> Surface`

   This can flip a Surface either vertically, horizontally, or both. Flipping a
   Surface is non-destructive and returns a new Surface with the same
   dimensions.

   .. ## pygame.transform.flip ##

.. function:: scale

   | :sl:`resize to new resolution`
   | :sg:`scale(Surface, (width, height), DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Resizes the Surface to a new resolution. This is a fast scale operation that
   does not sample the results.

   An optional destination surface can be used, rather than have it create a
   new one. This is quicker if you want to repeatedly scale something. However
   the destination must be the same size as the (width, height) passed in. Also
   the destination surface must be the same format.

   .. ## pygame.transform.scale ##

.. function:: rotate

   | :sl:`rotate an image`
   | :sg:`rotate(Surface, angle) -> Surface`

   Unfiltered counterclockwise rotation. The angle argument represents degrees
   and can be any floating point value. Negative angle amounts will rotate
   clockwise.

   Unless rotating by 90 degree increments, the image will be padded larger to
   hold the new size. If the image has pixel alphas, the padded area will be
   transparent. Otherwise pygame will pick a color that matches the Surface
   colorkey or the topleft pixel value.

   .. ## pygame.transform.rotate ##

.. function:: rotozoom

   | :sl:`filtered scale and rotation`
   | :sg:`rotozoom(Surface, angle, scale) -> Surface`

   This is a combined scale and rotation transform. The resulting Surface will
   be a filtered 32-bit Surface. The scale argument is a floating point value
   that will be multiplied by the current resolution. The angle argument is a
   floating point value that represents the counterclockwise degrees to rotate.
   A negative rotation angle will rotate clockwise.

   .. ## pygame.transform.rotozoom ##

.. function:: scale2x

   | :sl:`specialized image doubler`
   | :sg:`scale2x(Surface, DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   This will return a new image that is double the size of the original. It
   uses the AdvanceMAME Scale2X algorithm which does a 'jaggie-less' scale of
   bitmap graphics.

   This really only has an effect on simple images with solid colors. On
   photographic and antialiased images it will look like a regular unfiltered
   scale.

   An optional destination surface can be used, rather than have it create a
   new one. This is quicker if you want to repeatedly scale something. However
   the destination must be twice the size of the source surface passed in. Also
   the destination surface must be the same format.

   .. ## pygame.transform.scale2x ##

.. function:: smoothscale

   | :sl:`scale a surface to an arbitrary size smoothly`
   | :sg:`smoothscale(Surface, (width, height), DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Uses one of two different algorithms for scaling each dimension of the input
   surface as required. For shrinkage, the output pixels are area averages of
   the colors they cover. For expansion, a bilinear filter is used. For the
   x86-64 and i686 architectures, optimized ``MMX`` routines are included and
   will run much faster than other machine types. The size is a 2 number
   sequence for (width, height). This function only works for 24-bit or 32-bit
   surfaces. An exception will be thrown if the input surface bit depth is less
   than 24.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.smoothscale ##

.. function:: get_smoothscale_backend

   | :sl:`return smoothscale filter version in use: 'GENERIC', 'MMX', or 'SSE'`
   | :sg:`get_smoothscale_backend() -> String`

   Shows whether or not smoothscale is using ``MMX`` or ``SSE`` acceleration.
   If no acceleration is available then "GENERIC" is returned. For a x86
   processor the level of acceleration to use is determined at runtime.

   This function is provided for pygame testing and debugging.

   .. ## pygame.transform.get_smoothscale_backend ##

.. function:: set_smoothscale_backend

   | :sl:`set smoothscale filter version to one of: 'GENERIC', 'MMX', or 'SSE'`
   | :sg:`set_smoothscale_backend(type) -> None`

   Sets smoothscale acceleration. Takes a string argument. A value of 'GENERIC'
   turns off acceleration. 'MMX' uses ``MMX`` instructions only. 'SSE' allows
   ``SSE`` extensions as well. A value error is raised if type is not
   recognized or not supported by the current processor.

   This function is provided for pygame testing and debugging. If smoothscale
   causes an invalid instruction error then it is a pygame/SDL bug that should
   be reported. Use this function as a temporary fix only.

   .. ## pygame.transform.set_smoothscale_backend ##

.. function:: chop

   | :sl:`gets a copy of an image with an interior area removed`
   | :sg:`chop(Surface, rect) -> Surface`

   Extracts a portion of an image. All vertical and horizontal pixels
   surrounding the given rectangle area are removed. The corner areas (diagonal
   to the rect) are then brought together. (The original image is not altered
   by this operation.)

   ``NOTE``: If you want a "crop" that returns the part of an image within a
   rect, you can blit with a rect to a new surface or copy a subsurface.

   .. ## pygame.transform.chop ##

.. function:: laplacian

   | :sl:`find edges in a surface`
   | :sg:`laplacian(Surface, DestSurface = None) -> Surface`

   Finds the edges in a surface using the laplacian algorithm.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.laplacian ##

.. function:: average_surfaces

   | :sl:`find the average surface from many surfaces.`
   | :sg:`average_surfaces(Surfaces, DestSurface = None, palette_colors = 1) -> Surface`

   Takes a sequence of surfaces and returns a surface with average colors from
   each of the surfaces.

   palette_colors - if true we average the colors in palette, otherwise we
   average the pixel values. This is useful if the surface is actually
   greyscale colors, and not palette colors.

   Note, this function currently does not handle palette using surfaces
   correctly.

   New in pygame 1.8 palette_colors argument new in pygame 1.9

   .. ## pygame.transform.average_surfaces ##

.. function:: average_color

   | :sl:`finds the average color of a surface`
   | :sg:`average_color(Surface, Rect = None) -> Color`

   Finds the average color of a Surface or a region of a surface specified by a
   Rect, and returns it as a Color.

   .. ## pygame.transform.average_color ##

.. function:: threshold


   TODO: new names and a better explanation.
        # dest_surf                  # Surface we are changing. See 'set_behavior'.
        #                            # None - if counting (set_behavior is 0), don't need 'dest_surf'.
        # surf                       # Surface we are looking at.
        # search_color               # Color we are searching for.
        # threshold = (0,0,0,0)      # Within this distance from search_color (or search_surf).
        # set_color = (0,0,0,0)      # color we set.
        # set_behavior = 1           # 1 - pixels in dest_surface will be changed to 'set_color'.
        #                            # 0 - we do not change 'dest_surf', just count. Make dest_surf=None.
        #                            # 2 - pixels set in 'dest_surf' will be from 'surface'.
        # search_surf = None         # None - search against 'search_color' instead.
        #                            # Surface - look at the color in here rather than 'search_color'.
        # inverse_set = False        # False - pixels outside of threshold are changed.
        #                            # True - pixels within threshold are changed.



   | :sl:`finds which, and how many pixels in a surface are within a threshold of a color.`
   | :sg:`threshold(DestSurface, Surface, color, threshold = (0,0,0,0), diff_color = (0,0,0,0), change_return = 1, Surface = None, inverse = False) -> num_threshold_pixels`

   Finds which, and how many pixels in a surface are within a threshold of a
   color.

   It can set the destination surface where all of the pixels not within the
   threshold are changed to diff_color. If inverse is optionally set to True,
   the pixels that are within the threshold are instead changed to diff_color.

   If the optional second surface is given, it is used to threshold against
   rather than the specified color. That is, it will find each pixel in the
   first Surface that is within the threshold of the pixel at the same
   coordinates of the second Surface.

   If change_return is set to 0, it can be used to just count the number of
   pixels within the threshold if you set

   If change_return is set to 1, the pixels set in DestSurface will be those
   from the color.

   If change_return is set to 2, the pixels set in DestSurface will be those
   from the first Surface.

   You can use a threshold of (r,g,b,a) where the r,g,b can have different
   thresholds. So you could use an r threshold of 40 and a blue threshold of 2
   if you like.

   New in pygame 1.8

   .. ## pygame.transform.threshold ##

.. ## pygame.transform ##
