## Pygame Documentation Overview

### Accessing Documentation

Obviously you can visit pygame.org/docs to see the documentation, 
but the documentation can also be launched with `python -m pygame.docs`

### Generating the Documentation

Steps:
- Have Python 3.6 or higher
- install Sphinx (`pip install Sphinx==4.5.0`)
- fork the pygame repository, download and navigate to it in the terminal
- run `python setup.py docs`

This will create a new folder under the `docs` folder. 
In `docs/generated`, you will find a local copy of the pygame documentation.

You can launch this by clicking on index.html or by running the command
`python -m docs` from the pygame folder. (The same as manually running
__main__.py in `docs/`). The docs launch command will direct you to the
pygame website if there aren't any locally generated docs.

There is also a `docs --fullgeneration` or `docs --f` command for regenerating
everything regardless of whether Sphinx thinks it should be regenerated. This
is useful when editing the theme CSS.

###  Contributing

If you see any grammatical mistakes or errors in the documentation,
contributing to the docs is a great way to help out.

For simple things, no issue is necessary -- but if you want to change
something complex it would be best to open an issue first.

Some background that may help with changes: pygame's documentation
is written in rst files, which stands for "ReStructured Text." We use Sphinx
([Sphinx Documentation](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/)) to convert
these rst files into html, which are then hosted on the pygame website.

Sphinx has a good ReStructed Text primer to learn the basics:
https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html

**Contributing steps:**
- **Step 1:** Have an idea to improve the docs, perhaps create an issue on 
GitHub.

- **Step 2:** Find the file you want to edit: it will most likely be in 
`docs/reST/ref`. You can edit the file locally using Step 3, which is a 
good practice. OR, you can navigate through GitHub for the file and use 
the "Edit on GitHub" button to make changes. This will create a branch on
your repository.

- **Step 3:** Download the Pygame source from Github locally. One way to do 
this is to fork the pygame repository and clone. If you are new to git, 
a simple way to do this is to:

   - 1: Install [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
   - 2: Install [GitHub Desktop app](https://desktop.github.com/)
   - 3: Open a web browser. Navigate to [GitHub](https://github.com/). Log 
   into your GitHub account.
   - 4: After logging onto your account. Go to 
   [Pygame's repository](https://github.com/pygame/pygame). Near the 
   top of the screen, click on the fork button.
   - 5: Open your GitHub Desktop app. You need to clone this repository onto 
   your computer. This can be done by selecting File > Clone Repository. 
   Select the repository you just forked. Choose a local path to save 
   the files. Click "Clone" button.
   - 6: Next, you'd want to create a branch on this main repository since you 
   should NOT work on main or master. Near the top of the GitHub Desktop 
   app screen are three dropdown menus. The middle label reads "Current 
   branch." Left-click on this menu. Click on New Branch button. Name 
   your branch something relevant to the changes you have in mind.
   - 7: The Current Branch should now point to your newly created branch 
   instead of main or master.
   - 8: Using the GitHub Desktop app, publish your newly created branch to 
   your repository.

- **Step 4:** Implement your idea.

- **Step 5:** Follow the steps in "Generating the Documentation." This is 
important to test your changes work well.

- **Step 6:** Commit your changes. Fill out the description/summary with a 
relevant message of what you changed.

- **Step 7:** Push your local changes to your GitHub.

- **Step 8:** When you are satisfied with your changes, go to your GitHub. 
Select your fork and your branch. Create a Pull Request. A maintainer will 
review your Pull Request shortly.

## Documentation Style

The pygame documentation files have developed the convention of a 79 character
line limit, from PEP8.

They also use a 3 space indent.

## Pygame Documentation Implementation Details

This is meant to be a place for explanations of things that may confuse people
in the future.

### Hidden modules

Pygame still has documentation for the old cdrom and Overlay modules, which
are discontinued in SDL2 based pygame (pygame 2). It just doesn't show them,
because `docs/reST/themes/classic/elements.html` now has a list of
"blacklisted" modules to not put into the top bar. It also uses this for the
experimental sdl2_video docs.

### Styling / Themes

CSS rules for the generated HTML come from
`docs/reST/themes/classic/static/pygame.css_t`. This, in turn, inherits rules
from Sphinx's basic.css, which is autogenerated when Sphinx builds.

This is an example of a
[Sphinx static template](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/development/theming.html#static-templates)